---
layout: post
title: Javascript/jQuery
---

My first big project in the Bloc curriculum was a music player app called Bloc Jams. The goal was to create a music player application using html, css, javascript and a library called Buzz. Buzz is a library that allows you to manage music files in your application. This was a great introduction to using these technologies because we actually had a real, working music player at the end. This made it a fun project, but it wasn't without it's frustrations.

I am finding the most important technology at play in web development is javascript. Even with the libraries and frameworks we have available, a solid knowledge in javascript is going to be the most important factor to your success as a web developer. During the Bloc Jams project, I found that my javascript file was starting to become huge. This was a sign to me that I should really practice this particular language often. It also made me feel quite a bit overwhelmed. Once the music player was complete, it was time to refactor the app using a library called jQuery. This javascript library cleaned up my javascript file significantly by shortening the amount of code neccesary to write the application. To me, this was a welcomed site and made me really enjoy using jQuery. Although jQuery made life a bit easier, I still understand that it is important to know what javascript is doing under the hood. There may be times when using jQuery is not a best practice, and these cases you must know vanilla javascript to get the job done. I find this to be something I may struggle with moving forward, but diligence will help me keep my javascript skills sharp.