---
layout: post
title: Angular
---

My favorite technology so far has got to be Angular. I recently was exposed to Angular in my Bloc program and was instantly drawn to it's single page structure. This was my first time using a framework to develop a program, and was a good way to understand the differences between a library ad a framework. Notice how I used the word "program". That is because to me, developing in Angular feels a lot like writing a program as opposed to creating a web site that has some app-like functionality.

I began by refactoring Bloc Jams **again!** Will this project ever end? I am sick to death of making player bars move and play/pause buttons function. No, it turns out it will never end and I am destined to write this app over and over for eternity. Except that Angular allowed me to make this app in about 1/4 of the time it took using vanilla javascript and this certainly grabbed my attention. I was hooked during the entire process, paying close attention to the way controllers and services made the app function. I was blown away that I could actually trigger functionality right from an html file. I felt like I was creating a full program rather than a web site. Another awesome feature of Angular is the speed at which your app runs. I was blown away by the load times between pages compared to using vanilla javascript. This led me to notice how some of my favorite sites are more than likely developed using Angular.

Continuing my journey with Angular, I have been tasked with creating a chat application called Bloc Chat. I am still working on this project, but so far it has really challenged me to think on my own. This particular project is much more open-ended than any of the projects I have done so far. I feel as though I have been dropped off on a desert island and forced to survive on my own with limited resources. A dramatic description, but an accurate one. I created the front end design on my own as well as many of the functions. I notice that Bloc is leaving out, or being very vague about some important details regarding how to do certain things in this project. This is forcing me to research and read documentation to solve problems, which is an extremely valuable skill. So far it has been a great project for hammering in the nuances of Angular, and I look forward to completing it.