---
layout: post
title: College
---
Welcome to my portfolio site. Moving forward, this will be the best place to stay up to date on my current and past digital projects. I want to begin my blog with a few of my thoughts regarding college for technology professionals.

To start out, I should probably describe my journey up until this point. My quest for technological wisdom began several years ago while working for a successful tech startup in New York City. My role at the company was a customer facing support role in which I helped end users successfully use our iOS/Android application. After constantly testing and identifying issues, I was intrigued by the design of these applications and felt the drive to dive deeper. I became curious enough that I purchased a book on iOS development and started reading through. I also participated in a few online tutorials. I eventually figured out that this was what I really wanted to pursue as a career. I then decided to dive into something I've put off most of my adult life, College.

It is important to note that the last time I opened a textbook was most likely in 2005. I knew going back to school was going to be an uphill battle at first, and it turned out I was right. My first few months of community college were frustrating. I was taking math classes that made my head spin and learning how to properly write an essay again. After really grinding it out though, I found I really loved to learn. Classes became easier, study habits became easier to maintain, and I found myself actually looking forward to the 2 days a week I had dedicated to my classes. I even found myself on the deans list 3 semesters in a row. Eventually I finished all of my pre-requisites and began taking my coding courses (finally). This was truly the bread and butter of my degree program and what I was truly excited about. My excitement quickly diminished as these classes came and went. I finished with stellar grades, but no real skills to show for it. I felt like I was learning how to write functions and sort arrays over and over and over. This I discovered, is the problem with these college programs. They teach you the very basics in several different disciplines, and then the semester is over. I slowly realized my hopes of having the skills to get a good job upon graduation were gone.

My next step was to find a way to sharpen my skills, fast. I turned to several online options, such as Udemy and Codecademy, but found these resources more of a quick resource than a full learning experience for a beginner. I was always interested in bootcamps for learning how to code, but they were never an option for me because it would be impossible for me to quit my job for 3-6 months to attend. However, I was still very curious in finding a bootcamp I could feasably attend. After researching the web extensively, I came across an online bootcamp called Bloc. Bloc's program would allow me to work on my studies after work and on the weekend, while having 2 weekly meetings with a real developer as a mentor. I was very skeptical at first of how this may differ from something like a Udemy course, but my curiosity got the best of me and I enrolled. I am currently 2 months into my Bloc program and I have learned more than I ever did in college. The technologies taught in these bootcamps are new and relevent, which is something I cannot say about the basic courses taught at the community college I attend. I find myself really thriving in this bootcamp style curriculum. I hope to finish Bloc as a real prospect in the job market, and to continue college in the spring part-time.







